# Installation, configuration and usage

## Installation

### via binary files

one Download of the binary available. 2 options:
- Fixed tag: on the [release page](https://git.sr.ht/~bacardi55/walgot/refs), go to the latest release and download the binary matching your architecture.
- Latest commit: On the [job page](https://builds.sr.ht/~bacardi55/walgot) and open the latest job and see the artifacts that can be downladed. 

*Nota:* Sourcehut keeps the artifacts generated by the automated build for 90 days. It means that if no commits is pushed in the pas 90 days, the binaries for the main branch will not be available anymore… In that case, follow the manual installation bellow to build the latest version, it's very easy :).

*Nota2*: 

Make sure it is executable (with `chmod +x binaryFile`) and maybe in your `$PATH`.

### Manual installation

dependencies: Walgot requires `go ≥ 1.17` (and `make` to build).

Use the makefile provided and run `make build`, it will create a binary file in a `bin` directory.

``` bash
git clone https://git.sr.ht/~bacardi55/walgot
cd walgot
make dependencies
make build
```


## configuration

Walgot is configure with 2 different files: `walgot.json` and `credentials.json`. An example of these two files can be found in the `example` directory in the git repository.

To use the default configuration file:

``` bash
mkdir ~/.config/walgot/
cp example/*.json ~/.config/walgot/
# NOTA: Here you need to edit at least ~/.config/walgot/credentials.json
# Then start walgot:
./bin/walgot
```

Don't forget to at least edit the `credentials.json` file, or it won't work.

### walgot.json

The main configuration file, in json format. See the [default example](/example/walgot.json) for all configuration options.

You only need to set the value you want to change in your configuration file, not everything.

*Nota*:
- DefaultSorting: can only be 'created', 'updated' or 'archived', default 'created'
- DefaultOrder: can only be 'desc' or 'asc', default 'desc'

### credentials.json

In the `walgot.json` file above, we indicate the path to the credentials file for connecting to Wallabag. See the [default example](/example/credentials.json) for all options.

Default place is `~/.config/walgot/credentials.json` but can be changed in the `walgot.json` file.


## Usage:

### Start

``` help
Usage walgot:
  -config string
    	file name of config JSON file (default "~/.config/walgot/walgot.json")
  -d	enable debug output
  -version
    	get walgot version
```

example:

``` bash
/path/to/walgot -d -config "/my/config/file.json"
```

### Status explanation

- ⭐: Starred article
- 🆕: Unread article
- 🔗: Article with a public shareable link
